docs/HowToUseNodeManager.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Node Manager
# nav_order: 10
---

# How to use fkie_node_manager for the SMB?
> This documentation explains the basic steps about how to run node manager for the SMB.

## Preliminary steps
1. Connect your host machine to the proper WiFi network.
2. Subsequently, go to WiFi Settings of the corresponding network. Then on tab IPv4 go to DNS section. Here, disable Automatic and set DNS to 11.0.0.5
3. On your local machine, in the console window, execute `hostname -I` to get IP address.
4. In the same console window, run:
```bash
export ROS_IP=#IP address
```
after sourcing your workspace execute:
```bash
node_manager
```
5. In the console window of SMB run:
```bash
sudo ip route add default via 11.0.0.5
```
## Establish a connection between host and SMB
1. Click on Start button, then without introducing any changes press OK.
2. Start the synchronization node by pressing the button next to the available ROS Network in the upper left part of the Node Manager window.
3. Again, click Start, but now change the Host to 11.0.0.5 and press OK. The SMB ROS Network should appear in the upper left corner of the Node Manager window, just below localhost network.


## Launch files
In the panel below the ROS Network, you can search for launch files which can be started either on SMB or on your host machine. By selecting appropriate launch file, in order to load it press Load button in the lower part of this panel. After successfully loading the launch file the associated node should appear in the main panel.

### Start ROS node
Select the a ROS node, which needs to be run and use the green play button on the left side to start the node.

### Kill ROS node
In order to kill the node, select it and press the green stop button which is below the previously mentioned play button.

### Console for a single ROS node
If the node has been successfully launched, you can inspect it via the console output by pressing the console symbol or by pressing F3

### Editing launch file
To inspect and edit the launch file corresponding to the node of interest, select the node and press F4.

## Synchronization of both ROS masters
Node Manager synchronizes all the ROS topic and ROS services, but unfortunately not ROS parameters. To share the ROS parameters between both masters, go to Parameter tab and load all parameters (symbol with small blue arrow). Then select which parameters need to be shared and export them to second ROS Master by pressing the big blue arrow pointing to the right.

# Troubleshooting
  - You get an exception on access remote host: Exception: ssh connection to REMOTE_HOST failed: not a valid RSA private key file. Generate an SSH key file with e.g. `ssh-keygen -p -m PEM -f ~/.ssh/id_rsa`
  - Before starting the node manager make sure that there are no processes running in the detached mode, i.e. execute `screen -ls`. You should get a similar output to the following one:
  ```bash
  76259._roscore--11311	(21.06.2021 17:22:32)	(Detached)
  ```
  To kill such a process execute `kill 76259`.

Commit message:

how to enable internet connection for SMB

docs/HowToUseNodeManager.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Node Manager
# nav_order: 10
---

# How to use fkie_node_manager for the SMB?
> This documentation explains the basic steps about how to run node manager for the SMB.

## Preliminary steps
1. Connect your host machine to the proper WiFi network.
2. Subsequently, go to WiFi Settings of the corresponding network. Then on tab IPv4 go to DNS section. Here, disable Automatic and set DNS to 11.0.0.5
3. On your local machine, in the console window, execute `hostname -I` to get IP address.
4. In the same console window, run:
```bash
export ROS_IP=#IP address
```
after sourcing your workspace execute:
```bash
node_manager
```
5. In the console window of SMB run:
```bash
sudo ip route add default via 11.0.0.5
```
## Establish a connection between host and SMB
1. Click on Start button, then without introducing any changes press OK.
2. Start the synchronization node by pressing the button next to the available ROS Network in the upper left part of the Node Manager window.
3. Again, click Start, but now change the Host to 11.0.0.5 and press OK. The SMB ROS Network should appear in the upper left corner of the Node Manager window, just below localhost network.


## Launch files
In the panel below the ROS Network, you can search for launch files which can be started either on SMB or on your host machine. By selecting appropriate launch file, in order to load it press Load button in the lower part of this panel. After successfully loading the launch file the associated node should appear in the main panel.

### Start ROS node
Select the a ROS node, which needs to be run and use the green play button on the left side to start the node.

### Kill ROS node
In order to kill the node, select it and press the green stop button which is below the previously mentioned play button.

### Console for a single ROS node
If the node has been successfully launched, you can inspect it via the console output by pressing the console symbol or by pressing F3

### Editing launch file
To inspect and edit the launch file corresponding to the node of interest, select the node and press F4.

## Synchronization of both ROS masters
Node Manager synchronizes all the ROS topic and ROS services, but unfortunately not ROS parameters. To share the ROS parameters between both masters, go to Parameter tab and load all parameters (symbol with small blue arrow). Then select which parameters need to be shared and export them to second ROS Master by pressing the big blue arrow pointing to the right.

# Troubleshooting
  - You get an exception on access remote host: Exception: ssh connection to REMOTE_HOST failed: not a valid RSA private key file. Generate an SSH key file with e.g. `ssh-keygen -p -m PEM -f ~/.ssh/id_rsa`
  - Before starting the node manager make sure that there are no processes running in the detached mode, i.e. execute `screen -ls`. You should get a similar output to the following one:
  ```bash
  76259._roscore--11311	(21.06.2021 17:22:32)	(Detached)
  ```
    To kill such a process execute `kill 76259`.
  - To enable internet connection for SMB, you need to delete previously defined defualt ip route. In the console of the SMB run:
    `sudo ip route del default via 11.0.0.5`
